“My name is Jerry Grey and it’s been five days since I was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s.”
“Hi, Jerry.”
“And it’s been two days since I last forgot something.”
“Well done, Jerry.”
That’s how Henry would write about the support group that Sandra wants you to go to, if he were writing this journal. You still need updating on Henry, and on support groups, and that will happen soon. Support groups are for other people, the same way car accidents are for other people. Sandra thinks it will be good for you. You fought about it, actually—though fought is probably too strong a word—but before you read all about the fight, or about Henry, here’s what you need to know about Sandra. You love Sandra. Of course you do. Everybody does. She is the absolute best thing that has ever happened to you. She’s beautiful, smart, caring, she always knows the right thing to say. When things are going badly, she is there to talk some sense into you. When the reviews are bad, she’s there to tell you the reviewers don’t know what they’re talking about; when the reviews are good, she’s there to tell you that reviewer is the smartest guy in the world. You bounce ideas off her, sometimes you go to the gym with her, you run with her, you used to hike when you were younger, you’d go camping and skiing and once you went skydiving together because you wanted to be able to write what you know. Your wife can’t walk past a cat without wanting to give it a cuddle, she can’t walk past a dog without a Howzzit going boy, can’t watch a chick flick without crying at the end, can’t walk into a mall without buying a pair of shoes, and she can’t imagine what you’re going through even though she gets you, and you can’t imagine a life without her.
You’ve been married for twenty-four years and, if you do the math, you’ll see that Eva is twenty-five years old. You dated for five years before the wedding, which included three years of living together. You met back in university. You were getting yourself one of those fandangled English degrees that were popular back in the day, and you were doing a psych class too—psych 101. And why were you doing these things? Because you wanted to be a writer. Ever since you were a kid, telling stories is what you wanted to do. An English degree would help you tell those stories, and a psych degree would help you understand the characters. That’s where you met Sandra—in a room of people all wanting to learn what makes the mind tick. Your opening line to her was We need crazy people to make a living doing this. She laughed, it was a warm wonderful laugh that made you feel warm and wonderful inside, it was a smile that made the world melt away except for her. You can even remember what she was wearing—tight blue jeans with in-fashion holes in the legs and hems that looked like hedgehogs had fooled around on them, a sleeveless red top that matched the shade of her lipstick, and her blond hair was flowing down to her shoulders the way you’ve always liked it. But for the last ten years or so it’s always been in a ponytail, even at the dinner party where you said This is my wife—please fill in the blank. You went to the cinema that Friday night. Seeing a film may be a cliché for a first date, but it’s a good cliché. You went to see a Star Trek movie. She was a fan, and you told her you were a closet Trekkie, and she asked what else you were keeping in the closet. You told her your last girlfriend.
Back then, of course, in your university days, you weren’t really a writer. You always suspected that the university education you were getting is what you would fall back on as your house filled up with rejection slips from the publishers. You wanted to be a writer from day one, but it was your mother who encouraged you to continue your education, her scoring point being what an English degree would do for your creativity. By the time you met Sandra, you had written a couple dozen short stories, but you didn’t dare show Sandra any of them until you’d been dating for a few months—and even then it was only after she assured you that she knew they were going to be just great, because you were just great. You were convinced if she read any of your stuff she would tell you it was good in a very vague Oh yeah, it’s good, I mean, sure . . . I’m sure people will like this, and by the way I can’t see you Friday night as I have to wash my hair / pick up a cousin from the airport / I’m getting a cold, don’t call me I’ll call you kind of way. What she did tell you was that your stories needed work. She told you that every character had to be perfectly flawed. She was the one who over the years convinced you to write a novel. THE novel. And that’s what you did. You wrote THE novel, and THE novel was awful and Sandra was kind enough to tell you. So then you wrote THE NEXT novel, and that was awful too—but not as awful, she told you, and you tried again. And again. It would be years later you finally put that university degree to good use and got it right, but during those years of study Sandra was tiring of psychology and was thinking of switching to law when she found out she was pregnant.
Life changed then. A few days later you asked her to marry you, and at first she said no, that she didn’t want to marry you just because she was pregnant, but you convinced her that wasn’t why you were asking. Having her in your life was the most amazing thing, and any day without her would be full of heartache and despair. She said yes. You didn’t get married until after Eva was born—Eva was eighteen months old when you walked down the aisle. By then you were also no longer studying, but were renovating houses. Sandra was a stay-at-home mother until Eva started school, at which time she then went back to university and got her law degree, focusing on civil rights. By then you had written A Christmas Murder, which a year later would go on to become a bestseller and open up the world for you. Sandra got a job at a law firm, and then all these years later you got Alzheimer’s and had a big fight with her.
Sandra is concerned, of course, because you spent yesterday moping around in your office, but you told her you weren’t moping, but working on next year’s book that your editor has just sent the notes for. Of course there were no notes—but you did call your editor this morning and she made the mistake of saying Nice to hear from you, Jerry. I trust you are well? which was like trusting politicians to have your best interests at heart. So you laid it out for her. Not like the journal, mind you—just the CliffsNotes. Actually, Mandy, no, you weren’t all right—you were five days into becoming somebody else, and your current project was a madness journal. She was very upset when you told her, and you were upset too, and why not? It’s something worth being upset about.
That would explain all the mistakes in the manuscript, Mandy said, and you pretended that didn’t hit a nerve. I should’ve known. . . . I should have.
Instead you just thought I’d become a horrible writer, you told her, and you laughed to let her know it was a joke, and she laughed too, but it wasn’t very funny.
Day five and Sandra is mad at you. The truth is if you were counting the days she had ever been mad at you, you’d be up somewhere around five thousand by now (that’s a joke, Jerry—I hope you’re laughing!). The truth is you never fight. Never, ever! Of course you argue a little, but what couple doesn’t?
So here’s the thing—you just can’t face a support group. Meeting all these folks who are going to forget you at the same rate you forget them— the rate of forgetting twice as fast in reality, like two trains speeding in opposite directions. You’re actually scared that any new fact is going to push out an old one to make room. What if you meet these people and forget your family? This is Blair—now who is Sandra again?
You didn’t explain it like that to Sandra because she wouldn’t get it even though she gets you. Nobody gets it, unless they’re like you, but it’s not as if you can just go and find a bunch of people who . . .
Ha—looks like you may have to apologize to Sandra after all! But whether you go along is another matter. You’ve never been a social person at the best of times, and this is not the best of times. Hell, it’s not even the worst—that’s on its way. This is somewhere near the beginning. A certain kind of limbo with a touch of hope and a touch of madness, all balanced just so.
You’re still trying to get used to the idea of what’s happening. You have another appointment later in the week, not with Doctor Goodstory, but with a counselor who is going to give you an idea of what to expect. They’ll no doubt tell you about the seven stages of grief—wait, no, it’s seven deadly sins, seven dwarfs, seven reindeer—grief only has five stages. Denial, Anger, Blitzen, Dopey, and Bargaining. The last few days you’ve mostly been in shock, to tell you the truth. You still can’t believe any of this is happening. Shock, plus some good old-fashioned anger. And . . . some pretty strong gin and tonics. If nothing else, mixing the G&Ts is one skill you have to hang on to, Future Jerry. That’s probably why you fought with Sandra. Not the G&Ts, but the rest of it, the nitty-gritty-shitty as your grandfather used to say, back when . . .
Ah, hell. Back when he was navigating his way into Batshit County.
Your grandfather was old school—he took the sickness and twisted it into something cruel and bitter. He’d mutter things like how women shouldn’t be allowed to work and those who did were stealing all the men’s jobs, or how “the gays” were the reason for earthquakes and floods in this world. Alzheimer’s gave him the freedom to become an uncensored version of himself. He would pat the nurses on the ass in the nursing home and ask them to fix him a sandwich. He seemed like the kind of guy to pour himself a neat glass of scotch, sit in a leather chair, adjust his tie, and blow out his brains with a pistol rather than die slowly, but ultimately he rode the Alzheimer’s train too long, passing the station where that option had been available to him.
The same option is available to you.
Sandra doesn’t know about the gun. You knew she would never approve. You bought it for research. Writers are always saying write what you know, and now you know what to expect when you pull a trigger. You know the sound that will tear into your eardrums if you’re not wearing ear protection. You know the weight and the feel, and the smell. You fired it at a range years ago, and since then it’s been under a floorboard under the desk, waiting in the dark maybe just for this very thing. You bought it illegally from Hans. You remember Hans? You’ll get the update on him later when I tell you about Henry, but if a guy covered in tattoos comes to see you saying you owe him money, that’ll be Hans. You don’t really owe him money, but it’d be such a Hans thing to try. You’ll know that if you remember him.
Eva still hasn’t been told about the Big A. She was over again this morning. She’s taking a couple of days off work, and Sandra is taking a few weeks off for me, and today they spent their time talking nonstop about the wedding. Dancing, cakes, flowers, dresses, bridesmaids—that’s the future. But for you it may now all be in the past. Eva is marrying a guy called Rick. You like him. You fired up the barbecue when Eva was over and the three of you had a nice lunch together and you’re glad you didn’t tell her. Soon, though.
Let me tell you about Eva. She is, without a doubt, the best thing that has ever happened in your life. The day you found out Sandra was pregnant, you almost collapsed. In fact, you didn’t ask Sandra immediately to marry you because you spent two days on the couch barely able to function. You were going to be a dad, and that scared the hell out of you. You used to think children didn’t come with manuals, but the fact is they do. There are a million books out there, and Sandra would buy them then hardly read them. The bookcase would be stacked full of parenting books that didn’t even have the spine cracked because you didn’t read them either, you didn’t need to, because everything just happened naturally. Everything you’ve done in your life, nothing comes close to those days when you would spend hours putting together a brand-new toy for Eva. That look on her face when she would see it, that smile, Jesus, that smile and those big blue eyes of her mother’s . . . that sense of wonder at something new . . . if the Big A left you with one memory, pray that it’s one of those. You kept thinking the magic would disappear as she got older, but no, it only got better. The day she broke her arm . . . she was seven years old. She used to love watching reruns of the shows you grew up with, and she ran up to the car and tried to slide across the hood like they do in The Dukes of Hazzard, and slid right off the other side into the driveway and twisted her arm beneath her. You were calm and collected and got her to the hospital, but that night neither you nor Sandra could sleep, and you knew, each of you knew, if anything bad ever happened, if you ever lost Eva, the world would end. You still feel that way. But this . . . this is telling you more about you, not about her. How to sum up Eva? She’s warm. She’s empathetic. She’s intelligent. At school she was a straight-A student, she excelled in volleyball, on the track, in the pool. By the time she was nine she could sing along to any Rolling Stones song you had playing on the stereo. When she was ten she dressed up for Halloween as a police officer from the TV show CHiPs because she knew you used to watch it when you were a kid. When she was eleven she would visit your mother and read to her during those final few months. She used to chase after the neighbor’s cat every time she saw it catch a bird, free the bird, and bring it home to try and nurse it back to health. Sometimes it’d work, sometimes it wouldn’t, and when it wouldn’t she’d make you dig a hole and stand with her as she held a small funeral. She begged you to buy her a guitar for her thirteenth birthday, then taught herself to play. She lived at home when she started university. She studied art, and politics, and law. But it was travel . . . there was something about travel that pulled her away from her studies. At nineteen she went to Europe by herself for a year. She learned French. She lived in Paris for a while. One year turned into two. She learned Spanish. She backpacked her way across a dozen countries. She was gone almost three years, but you’d see her when you were in Europe promoting the books. Travel made her want to show the world to people. When she came home she became a travel consultant. She met Rick. She’s in love, Future Jerry. She’s happy. That’s Eva. Your daughter. And if the Big A is the balance for this amazing life, then so be it. It might take away your memories, but it cannot take away the fact that you have an amazing daughter. A daughter, who at this moment, has no idea her father is sick.
Rick, by the way, does something involving software. He writes code or designs websites or plays computer games all day long—something like that. You and Sandra are going to tell them next weekend, after the appointment with the counselor who is going to, in a friendly way, prepare you for what is to come. If she mentions the words adult diaper then you’re going to pry up that floorboard.
Good news—you are still sane. You are still you in every way. You lost your watch this morning and it’s not on the A Place for Everything shelf. But more good news—soon you’re not going to need a watch. Bad news— you fought with Sandra, and you hate that. You’ll make it up to her. You’ll buy her some flowers when you find your credit card. Oh yeah, that’s the other bad news. Your Visa is floating around the house somewhere, God knows where. Good news—at least it’ll be a low bill this month.
It’s the thought of a buffet breakfast that gets Jerry’s stomach grumbling. He sits on the edge of his bed and he rubs his eyes and stretches his legs and stretches his back and hears something click into place. There’s a copy of Vault on the bed. It’s a novel about a bank robbery that goes horribly wrong, the twist at the end is that it all actually went horribly right. It’s one of his earlier books, though he can’t remember reading from it last night, and he’s not sure what it’s even doing here. He usually travels light.
He heads into the shower, and when he comes out he switches on the TV. He leaves it on the first channel that comes on, which is the news, and he guesses the last person who stayed here must have been English because it’s on an English channel, or perhaps it’s just the default setting of the hotel. His stomach kicks into overdrive. One of the best things about traveling for writers festivals and book signings are the nice hotels and big breakfasts. Suddenly he’s very keen to see what this hotel has available. He can’t remember the details of his schedule, but it normally involves a train in the morning as they travel from one part of the country to the other. And Jerry loves being in Germany, even if he does only know a couple of phrases—Mein name ist Henry, because Henry is who they think he is. Henry Cutter. He looks around the hotel room for his watch but can’t find it. No matter. He’s a morning person and has never slept past ten o’clock in his life. It can’t be much later than ten o’clock now. If it were, his German editor, who he’s traveling with, would have pounded on his door already. But not knowing where his watch is is somewhat of a worry. He had his wallet stolen once while in Germany, so these days he tends to lock his wallet and passport in the safe—which is probably where his watch is too. Though, for the life of him, he can’t remember the pin code for the safe and, come to think of it, where is the safe? A quick look around the room doesn’t reveal one, which must mean he’s left everything down in reception.
The hotel is a little drab, he thinks, as he steps into the corridor. He rounds the corner where two old people are standing outside a door, each of them wearing robes, and as he passes one of them nods and calls him by name. Probably somebody he met in the bar last night, or somebody he signed a book for. The man just says Jerry, which means it must be somebody he liked enough to have given his real name to, but with just the one word he can’t tell how good the man’s English is. He can’t find the elevator, but he does find the dining room, which probably means he’s on the ground floor anyway. In the dining room is a mishmash of people, most of them elderly, some of them staring into the distance, some wearing pajamas, some with food all over their mouths, making him wonder exactly what kind of hotel this is. In fact one person is being spoon-fed by another. His editor isn’t here—he’s either still asleep or out having a cigarette. He finds a table and waits for one of the waitresses to come over—they normally do with coffee, and to check your room number—but nobody shows up, which is okay, because he can’t actually think what his room number is, and, come to think of it, he must have locked his key card in the room. He starts checking out the buffet selection, which is, he thinks, not what he was hoping for. He grabs some soft-boiled eggs, toast, and a bowl of cereal, and makes his way back to his table.
He’s halfway through his cereal and has just spilled some when he realizes he’s still wearing the robe he put on when he got out of the shower. He pulls it aside and sees he’s wearing nothing under it. An intense feeling of embarrassment comes over him—this is exactly the sort of shit Sandra said would happen if he drank too much while on tour, and who the hell forgets to get dressed in the morning? He stands so suddenly that he knocks the table and tips over his glass of orange juice. It’s an effort not to swear, but he manages it. It’s an effort not to look out at all the people who are now staring at him, but he manages that too. There is something strange happening here, he can feel that, but he can’t quite figure out what. He keeps his head down and walks out of the dining room, and once he’s in the corridor he starts to run. He wants to get the hell out of here—next city please—and tonight, cross his heart and hope to die, he promises he’ll leave the gin and tonics alone. This is just like one of those dreams where you show up at work naked. He reaches his room and puts his fingers on the handle, hoping the door will be unlocked.
“Jerry, hey, Jerry, are you okay?”
A man is walking down the corridor towards him. He’s in a white uniform—he looks more like a chef than a doorman or concierge or whatever his title is at Hotel Wherever. He’s a big guy—the kind of guy who might have been a rugby player back in the day—whenever that was. He can’t be much older than forty. He has the kind of hairline that Jerry has always been frightened of getting, where there’s hair around the sides but nothing else. He has a pair of wire-rimmed glasses that need a wipe, and a thick set of eyebrows hanging over them. His jaw protrudes further than his nose, it’s big and square and well shaved.
“I forgot my key,” Jerry says, and decides not to point out he also forgot his clothes. The guy talking to him won’t point it out either if he wants a decent tip.
“The door isn’t locked,” the man says, and Jerry tries it out. Sure enough, the door pops open.
“It doesn’t lock automatically?”
“No.”
“What the hell kind of place is this?” Then suddenly it all comes to him. Things that didn’t make sense do now, and Jerry can feel himself getting angry. “This is why my watch is missing! And my wallet and passport—I can’t find them either. Seriously,” he says, “I don’t really like giving feedback, but you should do something about the security around here.” Then he flushes, because he knows what the man’s response is going to be. What, this from a guy who can’t remember to pull on a pair of pants? He decides to stay committed to the cause. To stay on the attack. “I’m going to call the police,” he says.
“It’s okay, Jerry. You haven’t lost anything. How about we get you into your room and sit down for a bit.”
“Where are my things?”
“I’ll explain it to you.”
Jerry shakes his head. “There’s no time. I have a train to catch.”
“Come on, let’s just sit down for a moment,” the man says, and he reminds Jerry of a car salesman, the Come on, just take her for a spin, see how she feels, get her out onto the open road and open her up kind.
“I don’t want to buy a goddamn car!” Jerry yells.
“Come on, Jerry, please, let’s just sit down.”
They head into the room. There’s a bookcase with all his books on it, which is pretty weird, he thinks, but then decides it’s not weird at all, but very sweet. The hotel staff must figure he travels a lot, and they’re trying to make his stay here feel a little more like home. He appreciates the gesture, but not at the expense of security. Then he sees a photograph of him and Eva leaning up against another photograph. Eva is holding a guitar. They really have gone all out here.
There are two armchairs in the room near the window. The view beyond is a partly cloudy sky with plenty of trees trailing out of sight. Jerry wonders what the collective noun for the trees would be, and decides on shitload. He smiles at the thought. He’ll have to put that into a book. Then he realizes that the collective noun for trees is probably forest. Or woods, or copse, or an orchard, or plenty of other things. They sit down. The TV is on, and the news is on, and the news anchors are talking about a woman who was murdered yesterday, a really beautiful woman with long blond hair that reminds him a little of Sandra. There’s a gold four-leaf clover hanging on a chain around her neck, which isn’t something Sandra would wear. He feels sad for this woman. Sad for her family. Sad for the human race.
“Jerry, do you remember where you are?”
Hell, he’d almost forgotten he wasn’t in here alone. He turns towards the man sitting opposite. “I’m just tired, that’s all.”
“Would you like to take a nap, Jerry?”
“What time is the train?”
“There’s time if you want to take a nap, and I’m thinking you’ll feel better once you’ve woken up.”
“And my stuff? My wallet and passport and watch?”
“Safe. All of them safe.”
“I have a hangover,” Jerry tells the man, though it feels more just like a headache than a hangover. He rubs his fingers against the side of his head. Suddenly the man looks a little familiar to him. “Is your name Derek?”
“It’s Eric,” Eric says.
“Are you sure?”
“Positive.”
“Do you know where my wallet and watch are, Derek? They’re missing.”
“I’ll go and find them, Jerry, I promise,” he says, and he stands up. “How about you just lie down here and rest while I’m gone? I’ll come back and check on you in an hour or so, okay?”
“Okay,” Jerry says, and it does seem like a good idea. He can’t believe how tired he’s suddenly feeling. “But I don’t want to miss the train.”
“You won’t, I promise, okay?”
“I’ll hold you to that.”
“It’s all going to be okay, Jerry.”
“It will be, as long as you come back with my things.”
“I will. How about you lie down first, and then I’ll leave.”
“Fine, if that will get you out of here quicker,” Jerry says, moving over to the bed.
“It will.”
The man switches off the TV. “Get some rest, Jerry. Yesterday was a big day and no doubt you’re tired,” he says. “I’ll be back soon,” he adds, and then slips out of the room.
Jerry knows he’s right. Yesterday was a big day—so big he can’t even remember it.
