Hey stranger! Remember me? I’m that guy you used to know, what’s his name, the writer dude, the one with the funny-sounding disease. This is day ten of the Madness Journal. Sorry it’s not so regular, but life and the things that go along with it (that you’ll soon start to forget) keep getting in the way.
Actually, enough joking around. How are you? Seriously, Jerry, you doing okay? Hopefully things aren’t too messed up. Hopefully the journal isn’t having a negative effect on you. It may be a map back to the person you once were, but it’s also serving as a reminder to what you’ve lost.
Day ten and you feel like you’ve always felt. Fit. Healthy. A little tired, maybe, but that’s all. You actually went out to dinner last night with Sandra —in all your years since being married, you’ve always had at least one date night every month—and you both spoke about books, and movies, what was happening in the news, what some of your friends were up to. It was really nice to just talk about something other than the insanity bomb waiting to detonate at some point in the future. Wherever you are, hopefully you’re coping.
The counselor came around this afternoon. Her name is Beverly, and her breasts were so huge they were resting on her knees when she sat down, and were almost resting on her knees even when she was standing. She’s in her fifties now, but by the time she’s sixty they’ll surely have snapped her spine in half. Sandra told me afterwards that she reminded her of one of our professors back at university, a Miss Malady, who she used to call Miss Catlady, and as soon as she said it you saw the resemblance. You’d like Beverly—she’s pretty funny, for the most part, but serious when she needs to be. She came around and we were right, buddy—out came the five stages of dementia, or grief. Stage one—denial. She pointed out you had been in denial since the first time you forgot Sandra’s name and put it down to the drinks. She said you’re still going to be in a stage of denial for a while—it’s the shock, you see. Of course where you are, denial was way back, along with the other four. You probably reached acceptance a long time ago—or did you? Are you reading this now, still refusing to believe what’s happened? It’s hard to know how to feel about that. Sad, in some ways, but in others it’s comforting to think of you staying strong, of staying steadfast and refusing to allow the Dark Tomorrow that is on its way to arrive.
Stage two—anger. She said anger was something you were going to be prone to as the disease becomes more pronounced. She said there will be mood swings ahead, that you’re going to get pissed off at the disease, at life, at those trying to help. You’re going to be snapping at people and saying mean things. You thought earlier it might be useful to push Sandra away—useful for her—but after today, after listening to Beverly, well, you’re as scared as ever. There are drugs to make you more comfortable— us more comfortable—and she said this journal was a good idea and asked if Sandra could read it because it might help chart the progression. You said you’d think about it, but you should have just said no. This is for your eyes only, buddy. Remember that.
So denial and anger are the two things you’re going through now. Bargaining is next. Not sure who to bargain with, really. Who do you have to sell your soul to around here to get a clean bill of health? It’s possible within the next few weeks you’ll end up telling Doctor Goodstory there must be something, begging for anything that money can buy, just get you into the next clinical trial that is showing some kind of promise, doesn’t have to be the next sure thing—at this point you’d take the next maybe thing. You’d sell the house and use the money to bribe your way into any kind of trial at this point—who wouldn’t?
You told Beverly it felt like The Very Hungry Caterpillar was about to make its way through your mind, leaving holes everywhere it went as it gorged itself on memories before turning into a butterfly and taking flight. You told her you were starting to think of the man you’re going to become as The Jerry Replacement, a version of you that would function on different levels, and you were worried about the kind of person he would be. A kind man? Short tempered? How many of the same qualities would you share with him?
She said there would be good days and there would be bad. Take from that what you will, Future Jerry.
You can’t remember what the fourth stage of grief is. You were going to look it up online earlier, but, eye-roll, you can’t remember the password on your computer. It’ll come to you soon, no doubt, and if not Sandra will know it. She knows everything—you just don’t want her to know you can’t remember it.
Beverly was here for three hours. It was a long day, and she gave you both some worst-case scenarios and some best-case scenarios. It’s possible you could be in a nursing home within the next few months. Can you believe that? A few months! She stressed that was the worst case, but the fact that at forty-nine you got Alzheimer’s, well, isn’t that already worst case? You shook her hand when she left, and Sandra exchanged hugs with her. When she was gone, you sat down with Sandra and between you decided it was time to tell Eva. She’s coming over for dinner tomorrow night. She’ll ask to pass the salt, and you’ll say sure, and by the way I’m dying. Jesus . . . there’s no way to tell her in a way that isn’t going to devastate her. You can imagine her sitting the same way she did with your mother, reading To Kill a Mockingbird to you, pouring a glass of water and asking you every now and then if you’re okay.
So it’s good news, bad news time. Good news—you’re still sane and you still know your name! Perhaps all good news can be rhymed in the future. And you found your credit card—it was in the yard. See? A perfect rhyme. Except it wasn’t in the yard. You’d used it to buy cat food the other day from the supermarket and left it there by accident. They called the following day to let you know.
Bad news—you don’t have a cat. It died six years ago.
He wakes up thinking about the money. Large bundles of cash stuffed into duffle bags, two security guards tied up and left in the vault, the bank manager with a hell of a concussion, and a future of beaches and pussy and maybe he’ll even get a tattoo to celebrate. After all, it’s not every day a job like this can be pulled off—they’ve gotten away with 3.4 million in cash, divided up three ways—he can retire on a million dollars and blow the leftover on partying.
He sits up on the edge of his bed and looks at his wrist where there is no watch and he wonders what the time is, where they’ve stopped, and all he wants to do is get back to the cash, which they buried beneath the farmhouse, which will stay buried until things die down. The key is to be patient. There is a book on the bed next to him. Vault. It’s written by a guy named Henry Cutter, and the name is familiar, but he can’t place how, even though it feels like it ought to be important. He stands up and stretches, then takes off his robe and pulls on a T-shirt and . . .
And his name is Jerry Grey. He is fifty years old and an Alzheimer’s patient. He is an author and not a bank robber. Vault is one of his books. This is a nursing home. This is his life.
The news is so sudden he has to sit back down on the bed. There is no farmhouse. No cash. No security guards. Just madness. He looks to the bedside table, but his journal isn’t there, nor is it on the bookshelf where there are other copies of his books. He moves to the chair by the window and looks out at the gardens and watches the sun turn shade into light one degree at a time. He can remember pieces of this morning, just small snippets. He was in Crazy Jerry Mode, which is what he sometimes calls it. He finishes getting dressed then heads out to the dining room, desperate for some lunch. Eric sees him and comes over, a big smile on his face.
“How are you feeling?” Eric asks.
“I feel . . .” Jerry says, then thinks of the best way to sum it up. With the truth, he decides. “I feel embarrassed.”
“That’s the last thing you need to feel,” Eric says.
There are people everywhere, murmuring voices, clinking cutlery. A guy with a chunk of his skull caved in is being wheeled towards a window. He thinks the wheelchair guy’s name is Glen and he used to be a prison guard until his own private destiny landed him in here with the rest of them.
“Then why do I feel it?”
Eric tells him he has a doctor’s appointment this afternoon, and he had forgotten—it’s the kind of thing he’d have forgotten even before he picked up his hitchhiker, a guy by the name of Dementia with a big fat capital D.
“I’ve remembered,” Jerry says.
Eric smiles at him, an all-knowing smile, and if Eric can read his mind then he’s forgotten all about it. “Do you remember sneaking out yesterday?”
“What about yesterday?”
“You wandered into town.”
Jerry laughs. Then he stops laughing, because it’s no joke. It’s coming back to him.
“It’s the third time over the last few months,” Eric says.
“The third time?”
“Yes,” Eric says.
Jerry shakes his head. “I’m not sure about the other times, but I remember yesterday. Not all of it. Not the wandering, but I remember meeting Eva at the police station. I remember walking along the beach before being brought back here. I wanted to go home. I still want to go home.”
“I’m sorry, Jerry, but this is your home now.”
“Until I get better,” Jerry says.
“Until then,” Eric says, and smiles. “Let’s get some lunch into you.”
Jerry eats his lunch by the window, where he can look out at the trees bordering the ground. They go for miles in most directions. There are lots of roses and daffodils everywhere, and some of the folks who wander the corridors of the nursing home are pulling weeds and soaking up the spring sun. When he’s finished eating, he goes back to his room. He picks up A Christmas Murder. He knows it’s his first book, but it’s been so long since he’s read it that he can’t remember the details. He sits in the chair with his feet up on the chair opposite and starts reading, and realizes it’s not just the details he’s forgotten, but most of the entire story. He’s thirty pages in when Eric comes and gets him, telling him his doctor has arrived, then leads him to an examination room.
He recognizes the doctor but can’t remember his name. The doctor is a good ten years older than him with teeth so perfect Jerry suspects he may actually be a dentist, then realizes it’d make more sense that the doctor trades medical services with a dentist, swapping the painkillers and the occasional backyard surgery for fillings and root canals. The doctor asks how he’s doing, and Jerry isn’t sure what the doctor is really expecting to hear, so he tells him he’s doing fine.
“Do you remember who I am?”
“My doctor,” Jerry says.
“Can you remember my name?”
“No.”
“It’s Doctor Goodstory.”
“Why couldn’t it be Doctor Goodnews?” Jerry asks.
Doctor Goodstory smiles, then goes about taking Jerry’s blood pressure before running some memory tests with him, some things Jerry can answer and some things he can’t, then Goodstory asks him some logic questions, and again he can answer some and not others.
Finally Goodstory packs his things, sits back down and crosses his legs. “I hear you had quite the adventure yesterday,” he says.
“I can remember bits and pieces,” Jerry says. “I remember Eva took me to the beach.”
“We’ve been charting the progression of the disease, Jerry,” Goodstory says. “It can vary from day to day, some days you are extremely lucid, other days you’re never fully aware of where you are, or even who you are. Like I say, things vary, but there are consistent themes to your overall state. One of those themes is that often, when you wake up, you wake up believing you’re back in your old life. The sense that everything is as it used to be stays with you sometimes only for a few minutes, sometimes for a few hours. It’s as though you regress to a certain time in your life. This morning, for example, I’m told you woke up believing you were on tour. Mostly you revert back to a time over the last few years, though on occasion back to when you were much younger. There are days where you have absolutely no idea what is going on, where you can’t even feed yourself. These days are rare, but they do happen and, sadly, will begin to happen even more.”
Jerry looks at his hands as Goodstory talks to him. He feels so silly.
“Even at your best now there are still so many things you’ve forgotten,” Goodstory says. “There are memories you’ve repressed.”
“What kind of memories?”
“Just memories. We’ll ask you something that you’ll have no idea about. Some things will come back to you, but there are things that refuse to. Mornings are the hardest. Once you become aware, then often you become very lucid, very aware, just like now. I’ve had conversations where I’m talking to you and I can see the words just falling off you, and I’ve had conversations where you’re almost like the man you used to be. The theme of struggling in the morning after waking up also extends to naps. Often you’ll take an afternoon nap, and when you wake up you’ll be confused, yet that tends to only last a few minutes. Sometimes much less than that, fifteen minutes at the most, then you become alert again.”
“Am I able to function in these other states?”
“Sometimes quite well. You just don’t seem to develop the memories. You don’t remember any of this morning, do you, about believing you were on tour.”
“Little bits and pieces, but not really,” Jerry says.
“But you can remember being on tour years ago?”
“Yes,” Jerry says. “Sometimes quite clearly. Other times hardly at all.”
“Well, you’re definitely functioning when you’re making your way into town. It’s almost twenty miles between here and the library, and that’s a lot of ground to cover. You could have walked, or you could have hitchhiked, but the mere fact you were able to means on some level you’re very much aware of what’s going on.”
“But I don’t keep the memories. It’s almost as though I’m sleepwalking.”
“That’s as good an analogy as any,” Goodstory says. “It’s what Alzheimer’s does, Jerry. It erases things, it creates, it rewrites.”
“Will I remember this conversation?”
“I imagine you will, right up until the moment you won’t. That could be twenty-four hours. It could be a week. You might not think about it for twenty years, then it will just seem like yesterday.”
“Is there a crueler disease, Doctor?”
“Sometimes I’m not so sure there is. They really should be keeping a better eye on you here,” Goodstory adds. “It’s one of the conditions.”
When he’s gone Jerry heads out into the sun with A Christmas Murder. For the next few hours all he does is read, caught up in the momentum of a killer and a cop. The book has a theme running through it that he recalls being in some of the others—a theme about balance. The world in his books is out of balance, it’s out of whack, and sometimes his characters—the good guys at least—try to fix that. He has the feeling that theme carries over into his life as well. He must have done something terrible for the Universe to treat him this way.
He is a third of the way through when he starts to have a very uncomfortable feeling that whatever that something is, it’s to do with Suzan, the woman in this book. She is somebody he used to know. An actual person. He can’t remember her real name, but she was a neighbor when he was a teenager, until she was no longer his neighbor because her ex-boyfriend killed her. He used to have a huge crush on her—she was ten years older than him, but he fell in love with her that summer—fell in love from the opposite side of the street, too young and too nervous to ever talk to her. He based this book on what happened to her. He used her story to write one of his own, a story he then went on to sell, a story that helped pay his mortgage, that helped give Eva a good education, a story that gave them the chance to travel the world—all things that couldn’t have been any further from Suzan’s mind when her ex-boyfriend’s hands were around her throat. Jerry remembers coming home from university that day, the police cars on his street, his parents telling him what had happened. Suzan was gone and it didn’t make sense how life could end so easily.
That’s the balance, he realizes. He took advantage of the bad thing that happened to her. This is why he is being punished.
He decides he doesn’t want to finish reading the book.
He decides he doesn’t ever want to read any of his books ever again, because there’s something more than just the memory of coming home and finding the police cars. There’s something else hidden in the darkness—best he stops looking. Best he heads back inside and lets the dementia carry on doing its work.
