Hey, Future Jerry. How you been? Sorry you haven’t been in touch. You’ve been busy. You know how it is. Things to do. Places to be. People to forget. It’s been ten days since you last wrote. This whole thing, this whole Alzheimer’s hoopla, has been getting to you. Of course it has. You want to be super optimistic, and make light of it when you can, and fall into line with all the Everything is going to be fine ideology everybody is preaching, but you just can’t, so rather than face the world, you’ve been sleeping in every day, hardly ever getting up before lunchtime. It’s been a Who gives a fuck kind of week, whereas it should be a Let’s do everything you can while you still can kind of week. You should be out there hang gliding and visiting Egypt and going to rock concerts and bucket-listing your way through your final days, not sleeping in. Also, you’ve been drinking more. Don’t get the wrong idea—you’re not getting hammered every night—two or three drinks, enough to take the edge of. Sometimes four. Never more than five. Enough to help you sleep. You also like to take naps during the day too. There’s a couch in the office. The Thinking Couch. You’ll lie there sometimes and come up with ideas for the books, work on solutions, lie there and listen to Springsteen cranked so loud the pens will roll off the desk. The Thinking Couch has become your Napping Couch and the desk a coaster and the stereo hasn’t been on in over a week. Sandra keeps saying you shouldn’t mope so much, but hey, if you want to mope then you’ll mope. Grant a dying man his final wish, right? Because you’re dying. Of course you are. The mind will be gone ten or twenty or even thirty years before the body—and if that isn’t death, then what is? These days you also use the couch to hide the Madness Journal. You’re sure Sandra sneaks in here at night and looks for it, but you have no proof of that.
It hasn’t been all just lying on the couch in the office, though. You got the edit notes back from your editor a week ago. She’s a real sweetheart. What you want in an editor is the ability to give you bad news in a good way. It’s always in there, hidden in praise—if there was no praise you’d have given up long ago. But this one—this one was an effort for her, no doubt there. She’s suggested some changes, and wants you to fill in more of the blanks, some character background, stuff a few years ago you would have been chomping at the bit to change because, after all, editing is your favorite phase, partner. Why wouldn’t it be? You’ve built the house, and editing is picking the color scheme.
So yeah—that’s what you’ve been up to. Napping. Drinking. Editing. You finished the last of the three bottles of gin that Hans brought around. When you rang him he told you he brought around five, but you can’t find the other two. Sandra rang Doctor Goodstory today—you don’t know what she said to him, and don’t really care, to be honest, but she’s off picking up a prescription right now. She asked if you wanted to come along, as if you were her pet, and you just shook your head and lay down on the couch in the office instead. When she gets back she’ll try to cheer you up somehow, and you’ll do your best to pretend that it’s working. You’ll fake it. That’s something you tell people when they ask for advice on writing—people ask you all the time, you know, so be prepared for that. Even in your condition people will go rattling around in that brain of yours for some last nugget of hope, something that will make the difference between their manuscript hitting the bookshops or hitting the shredder. You usually say Write what you know and fake the rest. You might want to look out for people trying to pinch your ideas too—not that you’re going to care about that, but you should. After all, you wrote all those books and it made you crazy. All those worlds—all those people—the Universe is always expanding, that’s what the physicists say, all those worlds upon worlds as new ones are born, but one day all of that is going to change. One day the Universe will be as big as it can be, and then it will shrink. It will collapse. That’s what is happening to you. Your mind—those ideas—got as big as it could get, and now it’s collapsing.
Oh yeah, and your favorite nosy neighbor—Mrs. You Know Who (but in case you don’t, it’s Mrs. Smith—I’m not kidding, that really is her name) —came over yesterday. Sandra wasn’t home. She was out with Eva going ooh and ahh at napkins, and you were lying in your office staring at the ceiling. The house has a wireless doorbell that flashes a light that sits on your desk in your office, on account of you having the stereo dialed so loud you’d never hear the bell ring. In fact, because you always write with the stereo turned up, you had to have extra insulation installed in the walls so the music wouldn’t annoy Sandra or the neighbors. The entire room is soundproofed. You could shoot yourself in here and nobody would hear. So the doorbell light went off, and you went to the door in your robe and pajama bottoms and there she was, Mrs. Smith, and really have you ever seen her wearing something not saturated in pastel? Her clothes were in fashion sixty years ago and again thirty years ago, but are currently in the out-of-fashion stage of the cycle. Her lips were painted bright red in an attempt to distract from the many wrinkles lining her face, wrinkles deep enough to swallow a penny. She smells like cheap perfume, mixed in with a little bit of earth, as if she’s always out planting flowers in the garden or toiling through her husband’s grave.
She came over and she just wanted to have a quiet word, you know, just a brief in-your-ear mention that some of the neighbors—not her, mind you, not her at all, although she would have to agree with them, but some of the neighbors—have been talking. You live in a nice house, Jerry—and hopefully you’re still there now—a nice house on a nice street, an expensive street where people have expensive tastes and expensive cars and expensive lives, most of them working less than you or not at all, their working days behind them, retirement homes on the horizon. She came over to be polite, just to let you know that some, that some people are, well, a little—not angry, no, not angry, or upset—more worried, yes, Jerry, I would say worried, worried that your garden has gotten a little out of shape. And she did have a point—the lawn hasn’t been mowed in three weeks, the garden is full of stinging nettle, the roses need trimming back, and the yard is starting to look like jungle animals could be hiding in there. Mrs. Smith hasn’t been the only one to mention it. Sandra has mentioned it too. She’s been so busy with the wedding that she’s had no time to do any weeding, and anyway, taking care of the garden is your thing. Sandra has mentioned hiring a gardener, but every time she does you tell her no, that you’ll get onto it tomorrow. You’ve been very insistent on the matter, and Sandra understood when you explained it was important because hiring a gardener felt like it was opening Pandora’s box. First the gardener, then a maid, then a nurse, then somebody to shower you, somebody to clean your teeth. Hiring a gardener is bringing that Dark Tomorrow you’ve been fighting to put off one day closer.
I know things have been . . . difficult for you lately, Mrs. Smith said, and doesn’t that really just sum up the dementia beautifully? Difficult for you. Yeah, lady, really fucking difficult. Between Sandra being obsessed with the wedding and you being obsessed with the need to mope (gotta mope while you can still remember why life is worth moping about), the gardening has taken a backseat. She suggested you get a gardener. You wanted to suggest she mind her own business. You knew your house was letting down the street, this beautiful little Stepford Wives street where everything is just so, everything except your garden and your Big A. You told her you would take care of it. She said she was sure that you would.
That sums up day thirty. Sums up the first month.
It’s time for another nap. The gardening can wait.
Good news, bad news—you know what? I don’t really feel like doing that today.
His name is Jerry Cutter Henry Cutter, his name is Cutter Grey and he is an author and this is a nursing home and this is the real deal and he didn’t kill anybody even though he knows he did.
His name is Jerry Henry Cutter and he is an author and none of this is real.
His name is Jerry Jerry and he writes crime novels and none of this is real.
“Jerry?”
“My name is Jerry Cutter and I am—”
“Jerry, do you know who I am?”
He is sitting by the window looking out at the gardens. It’s sunny. There’s a rabbit out there, twenty yards away, hiding in the bushes, but he can see it, oh yes he can, hiding there watching him, watching him, stealing his thoughts, using its tiny little rabbit brain to steal Jerry’s thoughts to try and make its own brain bigger, stealing Jerry’s thoughts to write a novel of its own, a rabbit novel about rabbits.
“Jerry?”
Jerry turns towards the voice. Nurse Hamilton is standing over him. “He’s going to have to fake it,” Jerry says, because a rabbit can’t really know what he’s thinking.
“Jerry?”
“Yes I know who you are, goddamn it,” he says. “You’re the nurse who won’t shut up. Surely you have something better to do.”
She smiles at him, and why would she smile? “Jerry, there are a couple of policemen here who want to talk to you, is that okay?”
“Policemen from the books?”
“Policemen from real life,” she says.
He looks back towards the window. He’s not interested in the policemen. They can’t be as much fun as fictional ones. He can’t see the rabbit anymore, but he knows it’s still in the same bush, still watching him. It’s undercover! “Is the rabbit a policeman? Where’s Mom and Dad?”
The nurse doesn’t answer him. Instead she turns towards two men who are standing behind her who he hadn’t really noticed, and doesn’t really make much of an effort to notice them now. “I don’t think this is a good idea,” she says to them. “There are bad days and there are okay days. This is one of the bad ones,” she says, and Jerry has no idea what she means.
“It’s important,” one of the men says.
“Rabbit,” Jerry says.
“Look at him,” Nurse Hamilton says. “Anything he says can’t be trusted, not like this. He’s going to confess to a dozen crimes. Two dozen.”
“We’re only interested in one,” the man says.
“I know that, but he’s not going anywhere.”
“Isn’t he? He has before.”
“I had a rabbit when I was a kid,” Jerry says, and they all look at him and he feels the need to explain. “I owned it for two days before it escaped and ran away. It wasn’t my fault. I was seven years old and what sevenyear-old is going to remember to shut the door on the rabbit hutch?” He stands up and puts his hands against the window. “That’s him!” He turns towards the nurse and the two men with her. “That’s Wally! Where’s Mom and Dad? They can help me catch him! Quick, we have to get out there!”
The nurse puts her hands on his shoulders. “Sit back down, Jerry, please, we’ll deal with the rabbit soon.”
“But—”
“Please, Jerry. Just do what I ask, okay?”
He looks out the window, then at the men behind the nurse. The way they are looking at him . . . he doesn’t like it. He sits down but keeps looking outside.
“We’ll keep a close eye on him,” Nurse Hamilton says to the men. “Perhaps you can come back tomorrow?”
“Hey, hey, Jerry, are you in there?” one of the men asks, and leans forward and taps Jerry on his forehead hard enough to hurt.
“Don’t,” Jerry says, and swipes at the man’s hand. Jerry doesn’t like him. Not at all.
“Hey, come on now, enough of that,” Nurse Hamilton says, and she reaches out and pulls the man’s hand away, then steps between him and Jerry, so all Jerry can see is the back of her cardigan.
“How do we know he’s not faking it?” that same man asks. “Faking the whole thing to get away with murdering—”
“Don’t say that around him,” Nurse Hamilton says, interrupting him.
“I didn’t murder Wally,” Jerry says, then looks back out the window. He doesn’t want to look at the men anymore. Just wants to find Wally. The rabbit is all he wants to think about.
“Now I’m going to have to ask you both to leave,” Nurse Hamilton says.
“Ring us if he gets any better today,” the first man says, and Jerry sees movement from their direction and turns to see that man handing a card to the nurse. He wonders if that man is a rabbit salesman. “If we don’t hear from you, we’ll come back tomorrow morning and try again.”
They watch the two men go, Jerry’s back to the window, and he can feel warmth from the sun as it comes through. He wants to go outside, but not while the two men are here. They may be rabbit salesmen, but that doesn’t make them good people. He decides he will wait for ten minutes. That’s a good amount of time for people to disappear. He thinks that some people can disappear off the face of the earth in less time than that, and he’s not sure why he would know something like that, let alone think it.
“Who were they?” he asks, once they’ve gone beyond the doors to the room.
“Just a couple of people who came to see how you are doing.”
“Rabbit salesmen?”
“No.”
“Friends?”
“Not exactly.”
“They don’t seem like friends,” he says. “I didn’t like them.”
“I didn’t like them either, Jerry.”
He turns back towards the window. “I want to go outside. I want to find Wally.”
“Let’s get you cleaned up first,” Nurse Hamilton says.
“Cleaned up? Why?”
“You’ve had an accident,” she says, and when he looks down he sees that he’s pissed himself, and when he looks back up he sees Wally running away, disappearing into the trees.
