You saw Doctor Goodstory yesterday and again this morning. He said Captain A is going to make this a pretty quick journey because you are now in the advanced club, all the way baby, from zero to a hundred in just a matter of months. Aside from being tired a lot more often, you told him you don’t really feel a lot different. Sure, you feel muddled sometimes, but otherwise very much yourself. When you got home, you printed out the Ray Bradbury quote you like so much, and put it into a frame where you can see it from your desk. Things really do feel like they’re all over now, just like the quote says.
Sandra and Eva are still running around like the sky is falling. You spent this afternoon with them at the church Eva is getting married in, Saint Something or Rather. It’s a really pretty stone church with lots of beautiful gardens out the front and a cemetery out the back, a horseshoe ring of poplars and oak trees separating the two. You can’t deny there’s a creep factor to the place, what, with all those bodies in the ground only a minute away from where Eva and Rick are going to exchange their I dos. Of course that’s the old horror writer in you thinking that. You’ve probably forgotten this by now, Jerry, but your first few manuscripts were about vampires, and zombies, and shape-shifters. Back then if you knew the real horror was waking up at three in the morning confused while taking a piss against the bedroom wall, that the real horror was stepping out your back door and stepping through a memory wormhole, then you’d have written a successful horror novel years ago. Eva getting married at a church by a graveyard—the failed-to-be horror author can’t help but see the timing of all of this coinciding with the timing of the zombie uprising, the zombies choosing your little girl’s big day for a little big day of their own. You feel bad Eva’s marrying her hip-hop-loving boyfriend in a place like this, but they’re doing it because of you, because Captain A Is taking you away, Yo.
After the church visit, you all headed out to the winery where the reception is being held. Eva and Rick were lucky there, because there was a cancellation, so everything worked out. It’s out in the country a little, mountains in the far distance, vineyards in all directions, a lake, a beautiful building, all of it stunning, stunning, stunning. And expensive. If there is a zombie uprising on the day, just hope nobody tells them it’s an open bar.
The last few days have been full of meeting people and ticking i’s and dotting t’s—the priest, the florist, the band, the caterers, picking up your suit, and you had to go back into town and see the dessert baker again. You had to stand there and nod and pretend you had no idea what was going on between him and Sandra, who again wore her hair down. Henry keeps saying you have to take care of that situation, and you will, after the wedding. There’s the rehearsal in a few nights’ time, where you’ll be shown how to walk in a straight line with Eva on your arm, how to shake Rick’s hand, then how to sit down in the front row next to Sandra. Everybody is worried you’re going to mess it up, that you’re going to make it halfway down the aisle, shit yourself, and trip over the priest.
Oh, another thing, you got the notes today that your ghostwriter has written up. There are some changes he’s planning on making, but none make any sense. He’s even suggested a name change to the novel. They’re going with Burn Time. You emailed Mandy and told her to go ahead, that everything looked fine, because it’s easier just to let it all happen now. Since you can no longer have the title you wanted, you’ve written The Captain Goes Burning on the spine of the Madness Journal so, if you’re wondering why it’s there, well now you know.
Hans came over again today. He brought more gin. You hid it away in the office after he was gone, but you’re not going to touch it, not till after the wedding, then you’re going to drink as much of it as regularly as you can. You’ve always wondered if the difference between being an okay writer and a great writer was sobriety. All the greats—they’ve spent time coked out of their minds or starting the day with a morning Scotch. Future Jerry, there are more days in your past than your future—that has been true for some time now, but even more true now. Spending your days in a nursing home staring out the window while a nurse wipes the drool off your face isn’t the future for you. When the wedding is over you’re going to drink yourself to death. You should get to decide how you want to go out, and that seems like a pretty good way. It does mean this journal doesn’t really have much of a purpose anymore, except maybe as a coaster.
You were out on the deck with Hans when the florist came over to see Eva. She smiled at you through the window of the French doors and you smiled back, and Hans grinned and slowly shook his head.
Got yourself a little crush there, have you?
No, you said, and shook your head.
I hear ya, mate. If things get to the point where you have to go into a care facility, and I’m sure they won’t, but if they do I’ll make sure there are some nurses in there who look like her.
Of course there’s no way he can do that, but the sentiment made you both laugh, and you can’t deny to yourself that if the nurses looked like the florist, then the nursing home can’t be all bad. You told Hans you’d started talking to yourself, and he said everybody does that sometimes, but he thought you meant you were saying things like Hmm, now where did I put the phone? You told him about the conversations with Henry.
Is he asking you to do things? Hans asked.
Like what?
Like hurting people.
You shook your head while you answered. No, it’s more normal than that. Like the conversation any old two friends would have.
He the one who told you to spray-paint the neighbor’s house?
It was a good question, and one you couldn’t answer. If you did spraypaint her house, was it on the suggestion of somebody who doesn’t exist?
At least you can’t leave the house without the alarms going off, right? Hans pointed out.
I can sneak out the windows.
Just don’t let Henry talk you into sneaking out to visit your florist, huh?
He laughed then, and you laughed too, and why not? Everything is funny in Batshit County.
Good news—the weather report is good for the weekend. It’s plain sailing ahead.
Bad news—you’re going to Rick’s bachelor’s party later this week. You don’t want to go, but Rick’s dad has promised to look after you. You’re only staying for the dinner part of the evening. Could be fun. Or it could be a nightmare. Things will be better when this is all over. Not just the wedding.
It turns out Jerry does know what to do. Of course he does. It’s why he took Fiona Clark’s cell phone and searched her purse for cash. It’s like he was telling himself (or Henry was telling him) back in the house: he has to think of this like one of his books. What would the Bag Man do if he were innocent?
He wasn’t.
He starts walking again. The streets are different but look the same— same houses, same cars, same atmosphere, but then he finds a street that gets a little busier, and he follows it, like following narrow streams to bigger ones until you find the sea, and that’s what happens here, a sea of traffic, of people, a main road he can identify. The good thing about Christchurch is you can’t drive for ten minutes in a straight line without passing within a mile of a mall, and he figures he’s about a thirty-minute walk from the nearest one now. He must be used to walking, because the nursing home is a good distance out of town. He wonders how long it took him to walk from there. A long time. Maybe all night. It takes him forty minutes to reach the mall. He hates malls. Yet he’s always thought that if you took the malls away, society would fall apart. It would be like watching the world if the wheel had never been invented. He dismisses the idea of dumping the knife in one of the bins there. Whoever empties them could find it.
He walks past an electronics store with half a dozen TVs pointing at him, some displaying TV shows he doesn’t recognize, and some displaying him as he walks past them, a camera sending back a live feed. He walks past bookstores, shoe stores, a bank, a confectionary shop, jewelry stores, a sports store, stationary stores, a toy store with a giant stuffed pig in a tuxedo on display in the window. He reaches a supermarket with aisles full of sugary foods and bored-looking people. He buys a bottle of water and a sandwich and a SIM card. The girl at the checkout asks if he’s having a good day, and rather than telling her the truth he tells her it’s going well, then asks how her day is going. She tells him it’s also going fine, and he guesses it is for her because he didn’t wake up in her house earlier. When he heads back to the mall exit he passes the shops in the reverse order, the only difference is the TVs on display are now showing the news, and on the news is a picture of him, Jerry Grey. . . .
You are Jerry Grey.
“The author who wrote under the pseudonym Henry Cutter . . .”
You are Henry Cutter.
“. . . has disappeared from the nursing home . . .”
You live in a nursing home.
“. . . he was committed to after the murder of Sandra Grey, his wife . . .”
You murdered your wife.
“. . . last year. Grey is suffering from Alzheimer’s and is likely to be lost and in a very confused state, and if spotted the police should be called immediately.”
He heads to the sporting store he passed a minute earlier. He spends half of his remaining cash on an overpriced rugby cap (go All Blacks!) and tugs it tightly over his head and tucks the front of it down a little. From there he heads to the bathrooms and finds an empty stall and locks the door and sits inside. On the back of the door somebody has written at the top Damien is awesome, and below that people have written other things, reminding Jerry of the comment sections online, a long list starting with That’s because Damien has a vagina and ending with Fuck the world. He opens the packet with the SIM card and slots the card into Fiona Clark’s phone. He starts to call Hans and straightaway there’s a problem. He has no idea what Hans’s number is. Why would he? He hasn’t remembered anybody’s number in a while now, and not because of the dementia, but because his smartphone has remembered everything for him for several years now. He’s lost the habit of committing numbers to memory, and maybe that’s where all of this started. Is this what he’s done the other times he’s escaped the nursing home? Found his way to a phone not knowing how to call for help?
In this day and age there has to be a way, doesn’t there? A goddamn way of calling somebody! How difficult can it be? He bangs the palm of his hand into the side of his head. Come on! Those numbers are in there somewhere!
Calm down, Jerry. The voice of reason. The voice of Henry Cutter, who wrote the most unreasonable things until a ghost had to start writing them for him. The numbers may not be in there, but what about emails?
He’s right. Jerry hasn’t used email in a long time, but if he can access his account then he can email Hans. He uses the phone to go online, and he has to concentrate, really concentrate to remember his own email address so he can log in, letting his fingers roam over the phone, being guided by muscle memory, which he manages to do, the address coming to him, and back in the day—the day of Sane Jerry—he used the same password for everything. In the password field he types Frankenstein. Five seconds later he has access to his account. There are over eleven hundred unread emails. He doesn’t read any, and is about to compose one of his own to Hans when he remembers that not only does he have access to his emails, but also to an online address book. Hans’s number is there.
He makes the call. The whole bathroom smells like wet dog and bleach. Hans doesn’t answer. He leaves a message. He thinks about what other options he has. He looks back through his contacts and Eva’s number is in there. Could he call her? He decides to give it a few minutes in case Hans calls back, which is exactly what happens. He answers the call.
“It’s me,” Hans says. “Sorry I didn’t answer, but I never do if I don’t recognize the number.”
“I’m in trouble,” Jerry says, the words falling out of him, the sense of relief almost overwhelming. Suddenly he is no longer alone in this.
“I know,” Hans says.
“No,” Jerry says, “you have no idea.”
“Eva called me earlier, plus now it’s on the news and—”
“It’s worse than that,” Jerry says. “Can you come and get me? Please? I really need help. I’m at a mall.”
“Which one?”
“It’s . . .” he says, and he knows the name of the mall, it’s on the tip of his tongue. “I can’t think straight.”
“Go and find a security guard, or the mall management office and tell them who you are. You can wait there while—”
“I can’t do that,” Jerry says, shaking his head.
A pause for a few seconds from Hans’s end of the phone, and then, “What is it you’re not telling me?”
Jerry stares down at the bag with the sandwich and the bottle of water he bought earlier. “I’ll tell you when you get here. I’ll go out front and see what mall it is and I’ll call you back.”
“What’s happened, Jerry?”
“I’ll tell you when you get here. I’ll call you back.”
“Just stay on the line, Jerry.”
He stays on the line. He walks out of the bathroom and into the river of people carrying books and DVDs and clothes, some pushing strollers, some pushing shopping carts, and he walks to the same entrance he came through earlier. When he’s outside he turns around and there in big letters is the name, and he feels stupid for having forgotten it. He tells Hans, and Hans tells him to stay exactly where he is, and that he’ll be there in ten minutes.
Jerry hangs up and tucks the phone into his pocket. He opens up the bottle of water and drinks a quarter of it while staring out at the cars, all while staying exactly where he said he would stay. He’s opening the sandwich packet when it hits him.
He’s left the bag with the towel and the knife back in the bathroom.
He is desperate to start running, but restrains himself as to not draw attention. There are so many shops, so many ways to turn, so many people around him as he walks. He can’t figure out how to get back to the bathroom, not right away, and by the time he does his ten minutes are up and Hans is ringing him. He opens the bathroom door and goes to the stall where he sat earlier. It’s empty. He looks at the back of the door to make sure it’s the same stall. Fuck the world. The bag with the towel and the knife has gone.
