The online video has now had more than twelve thousand hits. If only your books could sell as quickly. There are also over a hundred comments. The Internet gives everybody a voice, and it seems those who can’t spell are the first to take advantage of that.
Ha funny.
Guys a genious. Bet his wife really is a whore.
Guys a hack. His books r shit.
Guy’s a fag. FAG! No wonder his wive screws round.
God loves everybody—but even he thinks this shmuck is an asswhole.
These kinds of comments have always made you fearful of where the world is going. You worry one day people will have the courage to say in the real world what they can now only say anonymously through social media.
Since writing those comments down in the Madness Journal (no cutting and pasting here, Jerry), the hit count has gone up another thousand. At this rate every single living person in the world will have seen it by Christmas, unless some celebrity kills somebody or flashes their junk to the media. Hard to know whether it’s crashing what’s left of my career or helping it. What’s that old chestnut? All publicity is good publicity? This will put that to the test.
Sandra came into the study earlier. It really has been a day for good ol’ chestnuts, because she pulled out the words that follow, and here’s how it all began. . . .
We need to talk, she said.
I’m really sorry, Sandra. I feel so ashamed and— How could you, Jerry? And I don’t just mean how could you say those things, but how could you think them?
She was crying. Tears are what Henry used to think of as emotional blackmail. Many of his female characters used them to get their way (you really are a chauvinistic pig, Henry), and all you could do was tell her how sorry you were, over and over, but being sorry wasn’t going to fix it. You were forming a plan—Henry can tell you.
Jerry was going to get his gun. Jerry was going to shoot the son of a bitch who put that video up online. Then Jerry was going to shoot himself too.
Thanks, Henry.
Do you really think those things? Sandra asked.
You wanted to say no. The word even formed in your mind, this little word so big and powerful, too big it got stuck, too big it was crushed under its own weight. Yes, you said. And I don’t blame you, I really don’t.
You did nothing to avoid the slap you knew was coming. It echoed around the room. If this had been a book or a movie Sandra would have realized what she had done and gasped and apologized, and in the end you’d have made up. It would have been the ultimate rom-com: you being put through the wringer, your relationship being pulled apart from every direction near the end of the second act, but all would have been saved late in the third. If only.
She slapped you again, this time much harder. Act three was going to be tough work to come back from this, and you realized this is why rom-com writers don’t throw a hilarious dose of Alzheimer’s into the rom-com mix.
You think I’m a whore.
No, it’s not that— Then what? she asked.
I know you’ve been sleeping with the baker.
What?
And the guys who put in the alarms. You’re always disappearing for wedding stuff, and I know, you said, and tapped the side of your head because that’s where the proof was baby, pure and simple, you’ve been sneaking off to be with other men. Including Hans.
Anybody else I’m screwing? she asked.
The cops who came to the door after the car got set on fire. And probably even a few people from the wedding, you said, because honesty is the best policy, isn’t it?
You must really hate me to think that way, she said. Have you always thought these things?
Only since you started sleeping around, you said.
It’s this . . . this . . . disease, she said, spitting out the words. It gives you carte blanche, doesn’t it? You can say what you want and you don’t have to own it because it’s not Jerry, it’s his bloody Alzheimer’s, but you have to own this one because half the world has already seen it. You became a laughingstock tonight, Jerry, you embarrassed yourself and you humiliated me and you ruined Eva’s wedding. I know you’re sick, I know things aren’t the same, but how am I supposed to forgive you for this?
That’s when you went ahead and made things even worse. It’s your fault.
Now she was the one who looked like she had been slapped. My fault?
If you hadn’t been cheating on me none of this would have happened.
She burst into tears and ran out of the room.
Good news—there is none.
Bad news—you’re probably in your final few days at home now. Your wife can’t handle the truth (what movie is that from?), and the hit count of you ruining Eva’s wedding just topped thirty thousand.
Good news. You have two unopened bottles of gin with your name on them.
Hans’s house is twenty years old, a single-story brick home with a neat and tidy yard on a neat and tidy street, a pleasant-looking area in which Jerry can’t imagine Hans fitting in too well. His tattoos alone must make him stand out. But then again he’s never been one for company. Hans has had a few girlfriends come into his life, girls with sultry smiles and big tattoos. But just as easily they’d drift away and move on to bigger or lesser things, drugs or booze or a different bad boy on the path to aging fast. Hans has always been one to move on as well, literally moving to a different house every two or three years.
Hans pulls the car into the garage and uses the remote to close the door behind them, putting them into darkness. The garage windows have been covered with pieces of cardboard taped into place.
“Nosy neighbors,” Hans says.
“The rest of the place the same way?”
“Not all of it, no,” Hans says, opening the car door. The interior light comes on.
“Have I been here before?”
“Not here, no. I only moved in six months ago.”
They get out of the car. Jerry grabs his plastic bag and Hans flicks on the garage light so Jerry can follow without walking into a lawn mower or shelf. They head into the house. It’s neat and tidy and there isn’t a lot in the way of furniture.
“You’ve been here six months and you don’t have a dining table?” Jerry asks.
“You want to discuss the way I live, or what we’re going to do about your situation?”
“Fair point,” Jerry says.
They head into the lounge. There’s a TV and a couch and nothing else, no coffee table, no bookcase, no pictures on the walls. He imagines Hans sitting in here watching TV while his dinner plate rests on his legs. No wonder he hasn’t had a girlfriend stick around longer than two months. Jerry sits on the couch and Hans disappears then comes back thirty seconds later carrying a wooden stool. He places it opposite Jerry and sits down. Jerry starts to work on the sandwich. He can’t remember the last time he ate. It’s chicken and ham with tomato. He picks out the tomato and offers it to Hans who shakes his head. He dumps it back into the bag. Hans switches on the TV to a news channel and puts it on mute.
“When the police come knocking on my door,” Hans says, “and they will, I’m going to—”
“I thought you said they wouldn’t be able to make out the license plate of the car?”
“They’re going to cross-reference people you know with vehicles they own, but this address isn’t the same address my car is registered to. So that gives us time. My guess is we have a couple of hours then we have to hit the road. You have two hours to figure out where this journal of yours is.”
“I already know where it is,” Jerry says, and he’s been thinking about it the entire drive here. “The new owner has it. He found it under the floor and for some reason he wants to keep it.”
“And what reason would that be?” Hans asks.
“I haven’t figured that bit out yet.”
“Okay, so let’s keep that as a possibility. But I want you to consider something else. I want you to think about where else you could have hidden it. If we go in there and it turns out this guy really doesn’t have it, then where do we look? That’s what you need to figure out now, Jerry. Where else can we look?”
“Okay,” Jerry says.
“And once we find it, we read it, and we go to the police no matter what it says, okay?”
“Gary has it.”
“Okay, Jerry?”
“Yes, fine, okay.”
“Think about where else you could have hidden it.”
Jerry takes another bite from the sandwich. “Fine, I’ll think about that, but we also need to figure out who would want to frame me,” he says, talking with a mouth half full.
Hans shakes his head. Then he sighs. Then he looks at his watch and then he shifts a little on the stool. Then he says, “Fine. Then let’s think about that. Do you have any suggestions?”
Jerry puts the last bit of sandwich into his mouth. He hits a piece of tomato he’d missed on his earlier pass through. He perseveres and chews on, and he thinks about who would want to frame him, and then he lets Henry Cutter think about it too. In fact he lets Henry do all the thinking because Henry’s got the better mind for it and, sure enough, Henry comes up with an answer.
It’s the guy, Henry says. Gary is the one framing you.
“It’s Gary,” Jerry says.
“What?”
“He found the journal, and I’ve obviously written enough in there for him to realize I can’t remember things, so now he’s killing women and leaving me at the scene. The shirt under the floorboards was probably one of his.”
“Jesus, Jerry, can you even hear how ridiculous that sounds?”
Yeah, my bad, Jerry. That was a bit of a stretch.
“Forgetting about the fact that I dropped you off at home that night, and I saw you wearing that bloody shirt, how does he do it?” Hans asks, carrying on. “He waits outside the nursing home every night in a van hoping you’re going to escape? Then, the times you do, he picks you up, kills somebody in front of you, you take a nap and wake up and forget where you are? Then conveniently forget everything leading up to it?”
Jerry doesn’t answer him.
“Do you have any idea how that sounds?” Hans asks.
Again Jerry doesn’t answer him.
“Okay, so let’s say some version of that is true, then why?”
“Because he can’t fake it,” Jerry says.
“What?”
“He’s trying to be a writer. He wants to be like me. Only so far all he has is a room full of rejection slips.”
“You’re still not making any sense.”
Jerry looks at the TV. There’s footage of bags of tightly wrapped cannabis and a bunch of police officers talking to people, footage of officers searching a house, of people being put into cuffs. The cops have put a dent in the nightlife of partygoers across the city, forcing the teenagers heading into town to damage their livers on alcohol now that all that weed has been confiscated. He remembers he once wrote a book about a gang who sold meth to high school kids. It didn’t end well for any of the characters. Is that where he’s heading now? To one of Henry Cutter’s bad endings?
“The biggest piece of advice I give people is write what you know, and fake the rest. There’s only so much research you can do. There’s only so far you can get into somebody else’s head.”
“I remember,” Hans says.
“Gary is killing these women so he knows how it feels, what they feel, what the whole thing looks like. It’s research. He can make his fictional world believable.”
“There are a million crime writers out there, buddy. If what you were saying had any merit, the good ones would all be killing people. Look, Jerry, let me be honest here—what you’re saying just doesn’t add up.”
Jerry knows it doesn’t. Of course he knows that. But throw a drowning man a brick and tell him it’ll float and he’ll pray to God you’re right.
“And the blood on your clothes today?” Hans asks.
“He put it there.”
“And the plastic bag in your pocket?”
“Okay, fine, so it’s not him,” Jerry concedes. “But it’s somebody, right? Because I’m not that guy. I can’t be that guy you see on the front page of the paper, the sick, twisted pervert who hurts women. I can’t be that guy, and if you don’t trust me, then trust Sandra. She would never have married somebody who could become that guy.”
Hans rubs his hand back over his scalp. “You do make a good point,” he says, “and I have to give you marks for trying. But everything you say can be contradicted by the fact you have Alzheimer’s. It’s a wild card. I know you want to think differently, but it does make you a different person.”
“But it doesn’t make me a killer. People don’t just wake up one day wanting to kill people. There has to be something wrong with them, something fundamentally wrong in their past. The guy who bought my house, maybe he’s innocent in all of this, but I still think he has my journal. We need to make him talk.”
“And how are you going to do that? You going to torture some poor guy on the hunch of a man who five days a week wakes up forgetting his own name?”
Jerry doesn’t answer him.
“And this guy, does he have a wife?”
“I think so.”
“You want to tie her up too so she can’t go for help? Threaten to kill her in front of her husband? Cut her fingers off until he tells you where the diary is? Kill him if you have to, even though you’re not a killer?”
“It’s a journal not a diary, and it won’t come to that.”
“Okay,” Hans says, “okay. Look, you said you can’t be a killer, because if you were there’d be something fundamentally wrong in your past, right?” Hans asks.
“Right.”
“What about Suzan with a z?”
“She’s not real,” Jerry says.
Hans shakes his head. “She is real, mate.”
“Don’t say that,” Jerry says. “It’s not funny.”
“No, it’s not funny at all, and the last thing I wanted to do was tell you this, but you’re really leaving me no choice here. Suzan with a z existed. She lived a few doors down from the house you lived in for six months when your other place was being fixed up. Her real name was Julia Barnes and I think you killed her.”
