Today is turning into one of the longest days of your life. This latest development is for you, Future Jerry, because you may not be dying today.
It’s hard to make sense of. It only unfolded an hour ago. Henry should be the one to tell it, but Henry’s job is to create. Your job, Jerry, is to tell it like it is. And here’s how it is. . . .
You completed the second suicide note. This one to Eva. The notes were neatly folded into separate envelopes, each one labeled and left on the desk where they couldn’t be missed. The trash bags were all taped in place, and you were moments away from Captain A finally having to abandon ship. You were sitting in the office chair looking at the couch wondering if the couch wouldn’t be better for what you had in mind, but it would mean shifting the trash bags and that really was just more stalling. Plus it would ruin the couch. No, the office chair would suffice, and really, what did it matter?
You weren’t going to use the pillowcase anymore. The idea of being found that way, of the photograph being leaked somehow, that in a few days it would be all over the Internet—Jerry Grey wearing a pillowcase on his head, look what a fool he has become—that was an idea you couldn’t stomach. You put the barrel of the gun into your mouth and your teeth scraped against it and you didn’t like that feeling either, so you decided to fire through the side of your head instead, and you were going to do it, then you weren’t, and then you were. It was like a switch being flicked on and off. Do it, don’t do it, do it. You thought about how some suicides fail, how the bullet changes path and rattles around the skull and makes a lot of damage but doesn’t kill. You put the gun back into your mouth.
You were looking at the Halloween photograph on your desk of Eva dressed up as a patrol officer from CHiPs when you pulled the trigger, but it was the bloody shirt, the knife, and the dead girl you were thinking about. It was always going to be about the girl.
Nothing happened.
The safety was on.
You were figuring how to turn it off when Sandra burst into the room. You dropped the gun on the desk and stood so quickly the chair rolled back, got caught in a crease in the tarpaulin, tipped over, and snagged the trash bag hanging on the wall behind it and ripped it down.
Thank God, she said, and her clothes were pasted to her body, sweat was dripping down her face and her cheeks were flushed. She was out of breath.
I just need another minute, you told her.
She marched towards you. She looked at the gun, then she took in the plastic bags and the tarpaulin and the horror of it all struck her and actually brought her to a stop. Her expression changed from one of relief to one of horror. Then she started to shake, and she made it to the couch and fell into it as much as she sat into it. She was no longer flushed. She was now ghostly pale. But she was still sweating, even more so, and panting.
I just need another minute, you said, because in that moment it felt like she was upset you hadn’t yet followed through with the plan.
She shook her head. Please, sit down with me, she said, and when you didn’t move, she held her hand out towards you. Please, Jerry.
You moved to the couch and sat, but didn’t take her hand. You had a mental connection with the gun because of what you almost went through together, and could feel it back on the desk waiting to be included in the conversation.
I had a phone call, she said. I’ve been trying to ring you. It’s why I ran back. To stop you. I’m . . . I’m so sorry I . . . I shouldn’t have left you like that to do . . . to do what you were going to do, she said, and she started to cry. You wanted to put your hand on her shoulder, wanted to tell her everything was going to be okay, but you couldn’t bring yourself to do it. Things weren’t going to be okay, and let’s not forget, Future Jerry, that by this point in the game she was already screwing the baker and the alarm guys and who knows who else. Right there in that moment when you thought that, you need to know you also thought about the gun. For a second—not even that, but just a microsecond—two things happened. The first is you saw her pinned beneath the baker as he moved inside her, he was wearing his big baker’s white hat and it was ringed with sweat, his big baker’s white ass in the air. The second thing you saw was the gun, you on one end of it, the other spitting out bullets into Sandra’s chest. Two unpleasant thoughts, not even a microsecond, but there nonetheless.
Do you remember Mae?
From one of the books?
No. A few weeks ago you wandered off and got lost and confused and you knocked on her door. It was the house you lived in for a little bit when you were younger. Mae was— Nurse Mae, you said, and you remembered her. You couldn’t remember the trip to the house, but you could remember being there, the tea and the chatting and then Sandra coming and picking you up. It was the day you were trying to dump the can of spray-paint.
That’s her, Sandra said, and she sounded pleased you remembered. Hell, even you were pleased. You allowed yourself a moment, a fantasy really, to imagine that the worst of the Alzheimer’s was behind you. Ahead were the five stages of getting better. She called to see how you were doing.
Why?
Because you went there on Saturday night.
I . . . wait. What?
I want to see the shirt.
Why?
Because I asked.
You pried up the floorboard and showed her the shirt. She didn’t look as unhappy as you’d have thought. You balled the shirt up and put it back, and then she explained everything. You can’t remember her words exactly. If Prick had been here with his video camera it would now all be up online to refresh your memory, but you can remember the gist of it.
At around three in the morning, Mae was woken up by a knock on the door. She opened it to find you standing there, and out on the street was a taxi you had arrived in. You had no money, and like the last time you had gone to her house, you were confused. She paid the taxi driver then took you inside. She told Sandra she thought about putting you back into the taxi and telling the driver to take you where he had found you, but the problem was she couldn’t know for sure where he had found you, or even that you wouldn’t just jump out at a red light and run for the hills. You sat at her kitchen table and drank a cup of tea and when she went to call Sandra, you asked her not to. This, of course, was after she explained you didn’t live there anymore, which by then you were figuring out. Your reason for not wanting her to call Sandra was simple—and you were able to show Mae just how simple it was by showing her the video of you ruining the wedding and what was left of your life. She agreed then not to call Sandra, but insisted that she call somebody. You told her about Hans. You had your phone. You made the call, and he didn’t answer, which was no surprise since it was in the middle of the night, so you left a message.
Mae sat up with you drinking cups of tea and you made small talk. The weather. Life. Music. She said you were fading in and out of the conversation, sometimes animated, other times you’d just stare ahead as if switched off. If any of this is true, Future Jerry, and there is no reason to doubt it, then it’s one of those events that didn’t cement itself into your memory banks. You were Functioning Jerry in the off position, and even though there were some on moments, none of them stuck. Hans called around five a.m. According to Mae, you insisted on meeting him out in the street.
When Sandra told you all of this, you closed your eyes and tried to picture it, and at first there was nothing, but then that changed and you could see yourself climbing into Hans’s car, but whether it happened exactly how you saw it, or whether you could imagine it because you’ve climbed into cars thousands of times, including his, you don’t know. If it’s true, you certainly don’t remember the drive home.
You were with Mae for several hours, Sandra told you. The news says Belinda was killed around three a.m. That’s the same time you were knocking on Mae’s door. The police keep saying they want to talk to anybody who saw anything that night, and want to talk to anybody who lived on her street who was awake around that time. Three a.m., Jerry, don’t you see what that means? If you had killed her before then, Mae would have seen the blood on your shirt. I asked her what you were wearing, and she said the same clothes from the wedding, from the online video. Then Hans picked you up.
You’ve spoken to Hans? you asked.
Not yet, she said. Something must have happened after he dropped you off, but whatever that was, it doesn’t involve Belinda. She was already dead by then.
Then whose blood is it?
Sandra went quiet then, because she didn’t have an answer. You were picturing the whole cycle again, watching the news, waiting for the phone call, waiting to see who else was dead.
But then Sandra did have an answer. And it made perfect sense. You haven’t spoken to Hans, she said.
That’s right.
Is it possible it’s his blood?
You thought about it, as if it were a memory you could recall, but of course it wasn’t. Maybe you’d had an altercation, and he had driven away bleeding and . . . was he even still alive?
Jerry?
I don’t know. I guess it’s possible.
She looked at the trash bags, the tarpaulin, and she started to cry. I almost didn’t make it back in time. I rang and rang, but you didn’t answer, and Mae only rang me because she wanted to check in, she said she regretted not ringing me the other night, and if she hadn’t . . . or if she had put it off a little longer, then right now you’d . . . you’d— You finally reached out to her, placing one hand on her knee and the other on her arm. But she did ring you, and you did make it home in time, you said, and you felt relief, but you also felt scared because there was still the matter of the bloody knife and the shirt. Something had happened.
Let’s clean this up, then call Hans, she said.
Cleaning up the room was everything in reverse, and it felt weird because hanging up the trash bags and laying out the tarpaulin, well, never during any of that did you think you’d be putting this stuff away. Sandra wasn’t able to get hold of Hans, but left a message. She sounded concerned, yet you know she’d have forgiven you if you had hurt him.
Then she went upstairs to freshen up. To get her emotions under control. To process everything that was going on. To change out of her sweaty clothes. That was when your phone rang. It was Hans.
I’m in trouble. I’ve humiliated my family and I’m the laughingstock of the world, and I’ve— People will get over it, Hans said. You’re only one waterskiing cat away from being forgotten about.
It’s worse than that, you told him, and then you poured yourself a drink. You asked him if it were true that he had picked you up. He said yes. You asked if the two of you had fought, if you had cut him, and he said no. You asked if there was blood on your shirt, and he said nothing then, as if he was the one who was having problems remembering. So you asked him again, and then he said yes, there was blood. He said he had asked you about it at the time, but you had no answer. You asked where the knife came from, but he hadn’t seen one.
It doesn’t line up with what Nurse Mae told Sandra, but somewhere between all that hearsay, and the gin and tonics, the details have gotten lost. But it will get sorted soon. Hans is on his way over.
Henry is trying to say something, but he can’t find the words, which is a shame because it feels important. Hopefully Hans and Henry can work together to help figure it out. You asked Hans to bring over another couple of bottles of gin too. Hans will know what to do. Solving problems—that’s such a Hans thing.
Jerry is sitting in a taxi handing money over to the driver when his phone rings.
“You okay, buddy?”
The driver looks concerned. He’s a big guy whose chest is hanging on his stomach, and whose arms are as thick as Jerry’s legs. He has skin tags tagging his neck and sunspots spotting his scalp. To Jerry he looks like a human baked potato.
“I’m . . . I’m okay.”
“You sure you’re okay?”
Jerry looks out the window. He’s outside his house. The phone is still ringing.
“This is where I live,” he says.
“Then good job I brought you here,” the taxi driver says. “Are you sure you’re okay?”
“Yeah, yeah, I’m okay.” The driver hands him his change. Jerry looks at his wrist, but he’s not wearing a watch. “What’s the time?”
“Just after six.”
He climbs out of the car. The day is darkening. It’s cool too. He looks down at the phone, but doesn’t recognize it. Where has he been? Shopping? Visiting friends? The taxi stays where it is while the driver fiddles with something on the dashboard.
Jerry answers the phone. “Hello?”
“I’m on my way.”
“Hans?”
“I’ve got him,” Hans says. “I can’t believe I’m doing this, but I got him.”
“Got who?”
A pause from Hans, and then, “Are you . . . are you okay?”
Jerry looks at his house. Yes, he’s okay. He must have wandered, but where he went he doesn’t know. What he does know is that lately he hasn’t been well. He’s been forgetting things. He pats down his pockets, but can’t find his keys. Sometimes he climbs out windows and goes where he shouldn’t, and if that’s what he’s just done, then perhaps he can climb back in. He moves up the pathway and around to his office.
“I’m fine,” he tells Hans.
“You’re still at the park, right?”
“What park?”
“The park where I told you to wait for me.”
“I don’t remember any park. I’m back home.”
“The nursing home?”
“What nursing home?” Jerry asks, though something about that feels familiar, but he can’t figure out why. He reaches his office. The window is shut and locked. He can see through the window and though everything looks the way it always looks, there is something a little different. The computer looks newer than he remembers, and things are in slightly different places, but for the most part it’s how it should be . . . except off a little. “No, I’m back at my house. What park are you talking about?”
“You’re back home? At your house?”
“Pretty much.”
“What does that mean?”
He makes his way to the front door. Maybe Sandra will be home from work. She’s going to give him a hard time, but if he’s lucky by the end of the day he will have forgotten. And if she isn’t home, there’s a spare key hidden in the backyard. Funny how he can remember where the key is, the day they wrapped it in a small plastic bag and hid it in the garden just under the edge of the deck, but he can’t remember the last thirty minutes.
Perhaps funny is the wrong word.
“Jerry?”
“It means I’m right outside, about to head inside.”
“You’ve remembered where the journal is?”
“You know about that?”
“Listen, Jerry, you need to listen to me very carefully. I want you to stop walking. I want you to stay on the sidewalk. I’m going to come and pick you up.”
He’s almost at the front door. He searches his pockets again in case the keys are hidden in there somewhere—how many times has he looked for his wallet or keys or phone in a pocket only to have found them there on the second or third time hunting through? He doesn’t see what the big deal is with Hans. He also doesn’t find the keys. He does find a pair of Sandra’s earrings, which seems a little odd.
“Jerry?”
“Yeah, yeah, I heard you, but you’re not making any sense.”
“Concentrate, Jerry. What do you remember about today?”
He thinks back over the day. He actually can’t remember anything. That happens sometimes. His family is worried he’s going to mess up the wedding because of it. He knows they’re thinking of putting him into care.
“Jerry?”
“I don’t remember much,” he admits.
“You don’t live in that house anymore, Jerry.”
“Yeah, right,” he says, and then laughs, and then he starts knocking. Nothing funnier than playing a joke on somebody who is losing their mind.
“Are you knocking?” Hans asks.
“I don’t have my key.”
“Seriously, Jerry, you don’t live there anymore. You need to wait for me on the street.”
“But—”
“Are the police around? Do you see them?”
“What? Why would there be police here?”
“You live in a nursing home. You’ve wandered off. You rang me earlier and I came and picked you up from a shopping mall. You don’t remember any of this?”
“None of it,” Jerry says, annoyed at Hans for still pushing this silly joke.
“You have to—”
“I don’t get it,” Jerry says. “I’m missing the joke.”
“I’m not joking.”
“I can see all my stuff through the office window.”
“That’s not your stuff.”
“Ring me back later when you’re making sense,” he says, then hangs up.
He knocks again, but there’s no answer. Either Sandra isn’t home or she’s in the shower. The phone starts ringing again, but he ignores it. He makes his way to the side gate, noticing that the shrubs they planted last spring have all been torn up and replaced by different ones, a layer of bark put down, a family of garden gnomes guardians to it all. He reaches through and unlatches the side gate, and when it swings open he’s staring at a yard that feels slightly out of whack. It takes him a few moments to figure it out, and that’s when he notices the pool has gone. When the hell did that happen? He’s used to losing things by the pool, but never has he actually lost the pool. The garden is different too, but the deck is the same, as are the pavers surrounding it, and he digs his fingers under one and lifts it. The key is still there. He steps up on the deck and opens the bag and at the same time looks through the windows of the French doors into the house. The world tilts further. He doesn’t recognize any of the furniture, and there’s a large painting on the lounge wall of horses running along a beach that he doesn’t remember ever seeing.
Sandra has finally done it, she’s kicked him out and the baker has moved in, all the furniture has been replaced, and she didn’t even have the decency to let him know. Maybe this is what Hans meant when he said he doesn’t live here anymore. He gets the key out of the bag.
“What are you doing here?”
He turns towards the voice. Mrs. Smith has always reminded him of a generic grandmother he’d throw into one of the books for some bad guy to toss down a flight of stairs. “Look, I appreciate your concern,” he says, “but I’m fine. And as you can see we’ve taken care of the gardens. Thanks for stopping by.”
That’s when he notices there’s one thing about her that he’s overlooked. She’s holding a hockey stick. She has both hands tightly wrapped around the handle, with the heel pointing in his direction. Is this a mugging?
“I’ve called the police,” she says, so this isn’t a mugging, and the words trigger a memory, the same woman saying the same thing, and he was sitting in a car when she said it, he was in the passenger seat and they were parked right there on the road, and who was he sitting next to?
“They’re going to lock you away for what you’ve done, for ripping out my roses and setting fire to my car.” She adjusts her grip on the hockey stick. “And for spraying that word on my house.”
“What are you talking . . .” he says, then the images all come rushing, so many of them at one time it makes him dizzy, so many he can’t make any sense of them. He sits down on the doorstep with Mrs. Smith watching him, looking as though she wants to wind up her arms and let loose with that hockey stick.
“Nobody is buying the Alzheimer’s bullshit, Mr. Grey, so stop playing that card. You’re a no-good, rotten son of a bitch who murders women for fun, and if you—”
“What?”
“If you think that you can sneak back into your old house and—”
“What?”
“And kill the new owners, well, you take one more step and I’ll put this through the side of your head.” She changes the angle of the hockey stick to make it look more threatening to prove her point. “I made the national side back in my day, so don’t think I don’t know how to use it.”
The national side? At what? Hockey-stick fencing? “What are you talking about?”
“You’re rotten inside, Mr. Grey. Mean to the core.”
“There is something wrong with you,” he tells her. “What kind of person makes up this shit?” Then he realizes he’s the kind of person who makes up this shit. He does it for a living. He’s a professional liar. A makeup artist.
“You just stay where you are,” she says, and prods the hockey stick at him. “Your wife is dead because of you.”
“What?”
“You killed her.”
Hearing her say that . . . well now, she shouldn’t have said it. Shouldn’t. Have. Said it. He grabs the heal of the hockey stick in both hands and then it’s a tug-of-war between them as he gets to his feet and pushes forward. He’s heavier and stronger and younger and madder and he pushes her easily back down the pathway. Her foot goes into the garden off to the side, she stumbles, holding onto the hockey stick to try and keep her balance, and suddenly he realizes what’s about to happen. As annoying as she is, the last thing he wants is her falling over and cracking her head open. He tries to keep his grip on the hockey stick to stop her from falling, but she’s too heavy, and the stick comes out of his hands. She loses her balance then and topples over, her ass hitting the ground a second before her back, her head hitting a second later, and as he stands there staring at her, he realizes what she said is true—Sandra is dead.
Your name is Jerry Grey, Henry tells him, and he’d forgotten all about Henry, camping out in the back of his brain, there to offer commentary along the way. You’re a crime writer who doesn’t live here anymore, your Alzheimer’s tips the world upside down and shakes the hell out of it. The police are coming for you, they’re coming for you. Oh, also, you shot Sandra.
But it’s Hans that is coming for him, not the police, Hans coming around the side of the house, Hans coming to a stop where Mrs. Smith is making friends with the lawn. She isn’t moving.
“What the hell, Jerry?”
“It . . . it was an accident.”
“Is she . . . ?”
“I don’t know, I don’t know.”
Hans leans down and checks for a pulse. He has to move his fingers around for a few seconds and tuck them into a wrinkle that makes his fingers disappear to the first knuckle, but then he nods and he looks relieved. “She’s still alive. Help me get her up onto the deck.”
They get her upright, each holding one of her arms over their shoulders as they lift her onto the deck. The sun loungers there haven’t been cleaned after the winter, they’re covered in dead leaves and cobwebs and bird crap, but between them they get her laid down on one. “We can’t just leave her like this,” Jerry says. “It’s too cold.”
“Why did you come here?” Hans asks. “You’ve remembered where the journal is?”
“No,” Jerry says. “I don’t even know why I came here.”
“Do you know where it is?”
Jerry nods. “The guy in there has it. The new owner of the house. Gary Somebody. It’s in there somewhere. That must be why I came back.”
“Then we need to go in and get it,” Hans says.
“She called the police,” Jerry says, looking down at Mrs. Smith.
“She said that?”
“Yeah.”
“Okay, then we don’t need to worry about her getting cold because they’ll be on their way.” He pulls Jerry back in the direction of the street. “If we have to, we can come back later.”
They reach the car. It’s not the same car Hans was driving earlier. It isn’t until Jerry is sitting down and putting on his seat belt that he realizes they’re not alone. Eric the orderly is slumped across the backseat, eyes closed and softly snoring.
